# finalprojectbattingaverage
This app will compute the batting average and strike rate of inputted scores of cricket. There will be a home screen showcasing each object in the list, which will start with 0 objects. Then, when the user presses the 'New Score' option on the top, and an activity will pop up which will ask for the score (an integer), the amount of balls faced (also an integer), whether the batsman was 'out' or 'not out' - which will be indicated by selecting the box that states 'out' --> if the box is not ticked as out, then it is assumed that the score is not out, and by inputting an opposition - if the opposition is left blank, it will be considered an 'undefined opposition' when pressing other options on the menu of the score list. When you then press the 'confirm score' button of the activity of the new score, the user will go back to the homescreen and be able to see the list with each score inputted so far. There is also a 'delete score' button which will delete the current score that one is making/editing. There is show average and show strike rate options on the menu of the individual score, and that shows the average and strike rate for the WHOLE list of scores (how those are computed are explained below). On the top right of the menu of the score list, there is a 'show average' option, and the average is computed by adding the amount of runs scored and dividing by the number of outs - if a score was not out, then 0 would be the 'out' integer for that and if the score was out then 1 would be the 'out' integer, and by adding all of the integers together, we will get the number of outs. The average will be shown as a toast with commentary provided - if the average is between 0 and 20, it will showcase the average and also say "I'm guessing you're a bowler because you can't bat!" If it is between 20 and 40, it will show the average and say "I'm guessing you're an allrounder because you aren't good or bad." If it is 40+, then the toast will show the average and say "I'm guessing you're a batsman because you are pretty good at batting". If there are 0 number of outs (either through only not out scores or through no objects in the list), then the toast will not showcase any average (as it is dividing by 0) and will say "add a score in which you were out!" Additionally, there is a drop down menu on the top right, which gives six options: "Show Strike Rate", "show amount of scores", "show oppositions",  "show average by opposition", "Show Strike Rate by Opposition", and "Clear List". Show Strike Rate will show the strike rate of all of the scores combined - for those unfamiliar with cricket and the term strike rate, it is basically how many runs one would score after 100 balls, so it is computed by dividing the amount of runs by the amount of balls faced, and then multiplying by 100. Show Amount Of scores will show the amount of scores inputted on the top left in text as a 'subtitle'. Show strike rate will also display different commentary depending on the strike rate. Show opposition, show average by opposition, and show strike rate by opposition all display toasts. Show oppositions simply shows all the oppositions in alphabetical order, show average by opposition shows the averages by opposition (sorted alphabetically by opposition), and show strike rate by opposition simply shows the strike rates by opposition (again sorted alphabetically by opposition). Additionally, there is a clear list option which allows the user to clear the current list of scores that they have.
